Docs 5942 mmp rtf v4.2 (#1015)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/deploy-to-rtf.adoc

> = Deploy Applications to Runtime Fabric

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Deploying Applications to Runtime Fabric Using Mule Maven Plugin
```

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> You can deploy applications to Runtime Fabric using any of the following tools:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can deploy applications to Anypoint Runtime Fabric using any of the following tools:
```

* Anypoint Runtime Manager +

> See the xref:runtime-manager::deploy-to-runtime-fabric.adoc[Deploy Mule Applications to Runtime Fabric] command documentation for instructions.

Reviewer: I don't think that we need this, because THIS topic is about using the plugin.

* Mule Maven Plugin +

> Follow the instructions in this article to deploy to Runtime Fabric using Mule Maven Plugin.

Reviewer: Because we want to avoid self-reference in text, to text, consider another approach to this introduction: mention the other method, but then tell under what circumstances your audience might want or need to use the method documented in this topic, and provide it with a summary of this topic's content.

"Although you can deploy applications to Anypoint Runtime Fabric using Anypoint Runtime Manager, you can also use Mule Maven plugin. Use the plugin when <provide instances in which the plugin is the better option>."

"Before you deploy using the plugin, you must meet certain prerequisites. It is also helpful for you to become familiar with deployment command parameters."

GLOBALLY apply to all topic intros: address the audience and tell WHY they want or need the info or to perform the task, and then summarize the topic set content at at least the next level of subtopic.

> === Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Prerequisites
```

> 

Reviewer: The prerequisites to a task topic should comprise a simple list of actions that the user has already performed or an environmental setup that already exists.
We should not send the audience off to perform other tasks or explain the need for other tasks here. All text accompanying the task should immediately and concisely impact the user's ability to perform the steps documented.
I think it's fine to have See Also links, but I would avoid them in the body of a task prereqs or steps.

> * Before deploying an application to Runtime Fabric, check the number of resources required. See xref:runtime-fabric::deploy-resource-allocation.adoc[Resource Allocation on Anypoint Runtime Fabric] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You understand and have available the number of resources required to deploy to Runtime Fabric.
```

> * The application must be published in Exchange. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The application is already published in Exchange. +
```

** To do this from Studio, see xref:studio::export-to-exchange-task.adoc[Publishing a Project to Exchange]. +
** To do this using Maven, see xref:exchange::to-publish-assets-maven.adoc[Publish and Deploy Exchange Assets Using Maven].

[NOTE]

> Studio allows you to select only two project types when uploading an application to Exchange: `example` and `template`. To specify a different project type, publish your application using Maven.

Reviewer: I think that the xrefs belong in See Also links and that the information about publishing in Studio vs. Maven belongs in a different topic. This topic should focus on deploying to RTF, not on publishing in Exchange.

[[deploying-to-rtf]]

> === Deploying to Runtime Fabric

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Deploy or Redeploy to Runtime Fabric
```

Reviewer: I don't think that redeployment deserves its own topic, since it is essentially the same task.
But I would add an introductory snippet here that mentions that initial deployment and redeployment follow the same steps, and perhaps the circumstances under which the audience might want or need to redeploy.
(ditto this edit comment for the other topic set I just edited)

> . Make sure you added the Mule Maven plugin to your `pom.xml` file.

Reviewer: This should be moved to Prerequisites and reworded as a condition that already exists.

> . Inside the `plugin` element, add a configuration for your Runtime Fabric deployment, replacing the placeholder values with your Runtime Fabric information:

Reviewer: Do we need to provide a first step text that navigates the user to this element?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Inside the `plugin` element, add a configuration for your Runtime Fabric deployment, replacing the following placeholder values with your Runtime Fabric information:
```

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<plugin>
include::example$mmp-concept-config.xml[]
  <configuration>
    <runtimeFabricDeployment>
      <uri>https://anypoint.mulesoft.com</uri>
      <muleVersion>${app.runtime}</muleVersion>
      <username>${username}</username>
      <password>${password}</password>
      <applicationName>${runtime.fabric.application.name}</applicationName>
      <environment>${environment}</environment>
      <provider>${provider}</provider>
      <properties>
        <key>value</key>
      </properties>
      <deploymentSettings>
        <publicUrl>${app.url}</publicUrl>
        <cpuReserved>500m</cpuReserved>
        <memoryReserved>800Mi</memoryReserved>
      </deploymentSettings>
    </runtimeFabricDeployment>
  </configuration>
</plugin>
----
+

> . From the command line in your project's folder, package the application and execute the deploy goal:

Reviewer: Does the audience understand what "execute the deploy goal" means?
It sounds a bit odd to me, but I am new to this jargon; nevertheless, would "...and deploy it:" be just as accurate?

+
[source,bash,linenums]
----
mvn clean package deploy -DmuleDeploy
----

=== Redeploying to Runtime Fabric

To redeploy the application, run the same command as you did to deploy. +
Runtime Fabric rewrites the application you had deployed.

> 

Reviewer: See edit suggestion above, re. incorporating this into the deployment task.

> === Runtime Fabric Deployment Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Runtime Fabric Deployment Parameters Reference
```

Reviewer: You could add a short text intro here, if you like, relating this reference information to the task.

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|===
|Parameter | Description

> |`runtimeFabricDeployment` | Top-Level Element.

Reviewer: Does your audience know what this means, "Top-level element"?
Is it just a title?
Does it really need to be documented in this reference section?

In fact...I suggest that you not document the very obvious parameters (the ones about which there is nothing to say other than that the parameter is exactly what its name implies), and introduce this topic with some text about how the following table describes only those syntax parameters about which there is more to know than indicated by their names....

Reviewer: GLOBAL:
Do not end fragment descriptions with a period.
If there is a second sentence, move it under the fragment.
See following markup for examples.

| `uri` | Your Anypoint Platform URI. +

> If not set, by default this value is set to +https://anypoint.mulesoft.com+.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

| `uri` | If not set, defaults to +https://anypoint.mulesoft.com+.

| `muleVersion` | The Mule version that will run in your Runtime Fabric instance. +

> You need to ensure that this value is equal to or higher than the minimum required Mule version of your application.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

| `muleVersion` | Must be the same or later than the minimum required Mule version for your application.

| `username` | Your Anypoint Platform username.
| `password` | Your Anypoint Platform password.
| `applicationName` | The name of your application deployed in Exchange. +
This name is part of the domain of your deployed app.

> | `target` | The Runtime Fabric target name where to deploy the app.

Reviewer: These might not need to be documented, because they are what the parameter name implies.
Please evaluate and decide.
Also, why specify that the application name is part of the domain? Isn't that common?

> | `provider` | Provider type. Set to MC ("MC" specifies Runtime Fabric).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `provider` | MC, for Runtime Fabric
```

> | `environment` | The Anypoint Platform environment to which you want to deploy. This value must match any environment configured in your Anypoint Platform account. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `environment` | Target Anypoint Platform environment 
This value must match an environment configured in your Anypoint Platform account, as shown here: +
```

> For Example:

Reviewer: Omit
```suggestion
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<environment>Sandbox</environment>
----
include::partial$mmp-concept.adoc[tag=businessGroupParameterDescription]
include::partial$mmp-concept.adoc[tag=businessGroupIdParameterDescription]
include::partial$mmp-concept.adoc[tag=deploymentTimeoutParameterDescription]
include::partial$mmp-concept.adoc[tag=serverParameterDescription]
include::partial$mmp-concept.adoc[tag=propertiesParameterDescription]
include::partial$mmp-concept.adoc[tag=skipParameterDescription]

> | `deploymentSettings` | See the xref:mmp-concept.adoc#deploymentsettings-reference[deploymentSettings Reference] table below for a complete list of parameters that can be configured inside this element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `deploymentSettings` | Any of the parameters documented in xref:mmp-concept.adoc#deploymentsettings-reference[deploymentSettings Reference]
```

|===

> === deploymentSettings Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Runtime Fabric deploymentSettings Parameter Reference
```

Reviewer: DITTO all edit comments made about the previous parameter reference, re. what might not be necessary.
Your choice.

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|===
|Parameter | Description
| `clusteringEnabled` | Enable Mule clustering across each replica of the application. It requires to have at least two replicas. +
By default, is set to false. +

> For example:

Reviewer: Suggestion:

| `clusteringEnabled` | Enables clustering across two or more replicas of the application; default is `false`. +
Here is an example:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<deploymentSettings>
    <clusteringEnabled>true</clusteringEnabled>
</deploymentSettings>
----
| `replicationFactor` | The number of instances for your application. +
By default, it is set to 1. +

> For example:

Reviewer: Ditto previous suggestion for consolidiation:

| `replicationFactor` | The number of instances for your application. Default is `1`.+
Here is an example:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<deploymentSettings>
    <replicationFactor>2</replicationFactor>
</deploymentSettings>
----
| `lastMileSecurity` | Enable Last-Mile security to forward HTTPS connections to be decrypted by this application. +
This requires an SSL certificate to be included in the Mule application, and also requires more CPU resources. +
By default, is set to false. +
For example:
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<deploymentSettings>
    <lastMileSecurity>true</lastMileSecurity>
</deploymentSettings>
----

> | `memoryReserved` | Amount of memory to be allocated for each replica of the application. If not present, the default value is 700MB. +

Reviewer: ditto and:

```suggestion
| `memoryReserved` | Amount of memory to be allocated for each replica of the application. Default value is 700 MB. +
```

Reviewer: Whew, this is becoming an awful lot of narrative text for a table column.
Consider list or subsection formatting instead.

For example:
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<deploymentSettings>
    <memoryReserved>100Mi</memoryReserved>
</deploymentSettings>
----

> This will set 100MB of memory to each replica.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allocates 100 MB of memory per replica.
```

Reviewer: Copyedited from here on.
If you started, continue combining and consolidating text lines as suggested above, following the same pattern.

> | `memoryMax` | Amount of max memory to be allocated for each replica of the application. If a memoryReserved configuration is present, ensure that this value is equal or higher. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `memoryMax` | Maximum memory allocated per application replica. Value must be equal to or greater than memoryReserved, if configured. +
```

For example:
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<deploymentSettings>
    <memoryMax>200Mi</memoryMax>
</deploymentSettings>
----

> This will set 200MB of memory max to each replica.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allocates 200 MB maximum memory for each replica.
```

> | `cpuReserved` | Amount of cores to be allocated for each replica of the application. If not present, the default value is 0.5 vCores. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `cpuReserved` | Number of cores allocated per application replica. Default is 0.5 vCores. +
```

For example:
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<deploymentSettings>
    <cpuReserved>500m</cpuReserved>
</deploymentSettings>
----

> This will set 0.5 vCores for each replica.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allocates 0.5 vCores per replica.
```

| `cpuMax` | Amount of max cores to be allocated for each replica of the application. If a cpuReserved configuration is present, ensure that this value is equal or higher.
For example:
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<deploymentSettings>
    <cpuMax>1000m</cpuMax>
</deploymentSettings>
----

> This will set a max of 1 vCores to each replica.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allocates a maximum of 1 vCore per replica.
```

> | `publicUrl` | Url of the deployed application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `publicUrl` | URL of the deployed application:
```

> For example:

Reviewer: omit
```suggestion
```
